Hi.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Good.
Jo Delgadillo: Thank you and I cut it today.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. How do you like it.
Jo Delgadillo: I love it. I like keeping it short and long hair.
Jo Delgadillo: It's heavy so that you can get short know my karma hates it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, she doesn't like it.
Jo Delgadillo: Nope. She's used to me, having long hair. It's always been like password but
Jo Delgadillo: I have used to have bumps all over my head and I get headaches really bad i and she didn't care. She was just like, you know, right.
Jo Delgadillo: So now that I'm older. And I keep it short. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe she's practicing self care taking care of yourself. That's good.
Jo Delgadillo: I put myself on a guilt trip but I'm trying to get past that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're on a guilt trip.
Jo Delgadillo: Just because we still live in this property trailer like now that we have money saved. We can't find something decent to move into but it's it's nice to be able to be picking you know
Jo Delgadillo: Settle with something just because we needed it so bad.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, so we're trying not to. Even though living in this trailer
Jo Delgadillo: Or next to move. I don't. I want for the kids. If I wanted to be a little bit more permanent
Jo Delgadillo: To where they have like their own space, especially Aiden. He's a teenager and
Jo Delgadillo: He's starting to be weird and moody and
Jo Delgadillo: He has attitude. He's like, and he don't even know it just like
Jo Delgadillo: Let it go, because he doesn't realize is doing it. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How does Adrian
Jo Delgadillo: Adrian Adrian meeting. He's 13
Jo Delgadillo: Voice his voice is all squeaky and he's starting to get pimples and yeah
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, the attitude and I don't even know what face.
Jo Delgadillo: And everything is just so personal. Like everything but he's, he's a good kid. He talks to me still. So I'm thankful for that. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Communication is always being
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What is important to discuss to me.
Jo Delgadillo: Oh baby showers. This Sunday.
Jo Delgadillo: And I got stopped paying for most of it. I was supposed to have help from the step mom and all of a sudden she's not going to go over nothing anymore.
Jo Delgadillo: And the reason we started to plan it is because I was gonna have help you know it's all on me when I called my son yesterday and I was like, what are you gonna do about this and that. And he's. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Jo Delgadillo: He's like we thought you were gonna handle it.
Jo Delgadillo: That's why I needed help doing this because I know you guys are going through it all, throw it all on me and I thought maybe
Jo Delgadillo: It would help. And she somehow out of it. Yeah. Every time I ask, why is she coming knowing gives me an answer and then my son was like, Well, it's because you didn't tell her I'm like
Jo Delgadillo: That's Mercedes talks to her every day.
Jo Delgadillo: I just
Jo Delgadillo: Didn't want to pay for it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I see that is cycle continues. Where
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You, you would
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Participate in something or you assist with something and then it ends up being solely your responsibility.
Jo Delgadillo: And then on the bad guy, if I say something. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It's like, Fine, then don't do it like and then he's like,
Jo Delgadillo: Well, you are telling me anything about it. So I didn't know what I was supposed to do. And I was like, what, it's your baby shower. You're the one that you guys are the ones who started saying that you wanted to have it this month.
Jo Delgadillo: I just helped you figure out a date, it would work on a Sunday. Most people don't work on Sunday.
Jo Delgadillo: That's the whole reason we did it on Sunday. So it worked for Katie and now all of a sudden
Jo Delgadillo: My son, he's I don't. He says he loves her. And then last week, he was calling me while he was at work and she was at school, telling me that
Jo Delgadillo: He thinks she's, she's with him for money now because he got he gets pretty big checks as it gets paid really good and all of his money's gone and within days.
Jo Delgadillo: He says that she will keep asking for this for that for this and then he'll tell her. No, and she'll get mad.
Jo Delgadillo: She, she's 17 she's still a child, but she knows, you know, in his head. He's like, well, she's kind of grow up and I'm like, I get that. But you still have to think about it. She's 17
Jo Delgadillo: Was just 16 like she's a child still but he's just like, I just need her to know and we're preparing for a baby, but he doesn't think here. It's not hadn't even hit him yet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I wonder how plans would have been if you weren't involved.
Jo Delgadillo: There would never happen.
Jo Delgadillo: There was a little
Bit you tell yourself.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't think it was because I don't my notifications for my text messages, don't go off and I've tried to fix it. I think I just need a new phone.
Jo Delgadillo: And I told them that, and then I go check my messages and I don't know what, oh yeah, the dog place called and said they left messages that are going to check and she sent me like 20 messages.
Jo Delgadillo: About this, and that the baby shower and me running her. She's still out and I've told her no all we got for I couldn't take her and she kept telling me, well, this person can't take me for him. I can't take me kitty can't take me so I just I stopped messaging her
Jo Delgadillo: Right, so it works on that part only because I didn't see it. After a while, so I figured if I left it alone. But no, it wasn't. And then my son kind of put me on a guilt trip.
Jo Delgadillo: And then it was mad at me last week because he'll come up to me and we went everybody went bowling and I told her I don't think she should bow, because it's slippery.
Jo Delgadillo: And she got mad crossroads and and walked away. And then my son's like can have money. And as soon as I give him money Peter he disappeared. I didn't know where he what
Jo Delgadillo: He didn't come back to after he was out of money and then I was like, why didn't you go I spent $90 on everybody to bowl and you take off and
Jo Delgadillo: He's like, well, she can pull. I can pick up. She's pregnant. I was like, No, you shouldn't let her do that she needs.
Jo Delgadillo: To she is pregnant, she's protecting her baby. It's not that I didn't want her to bowl. It's just, it's very slippery, like maybe kept falling. We kept slipping and that's why I was. I see. She doesn't need the ball. All he seen it. Was she can't do it. I'm not doing it just it's annoying.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mentioned guilt. Why, sorry.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where does that come from.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't know, maybe my grandma She puts me on guilt trips on like when I do stuff for other people, like a part of it seems like she's jealous. But she tries to make me feel guilty. A lot
Jo Delgadillo: Like I wouldn't got my nails unfilled two weeks ago with Mercedes and her cousin, which is transgender, he's a boy he dresses like a woman.
Jo Delgadillo: Boy, and he's she just got mad. She was she didn't really get mad. She's like, I'm hurt and I couldn't hear.
Jo Delgadillo: Them all. And he she was like, I'm heard that you took them. You didn't take me and you owe me money. And as I told you, tell me how much money you want, I'll give it to you, but she was just like, well you I shouldn't have to ask
Jo Delgadillo: I asked you two days ago, how much money and now you're coming out with, like, kind of like tell us she seen on Facebook. They didn't check in.
Jo Delgadillo: She tried to make me feel guilty because I own her money and it did. So I was like, how much money do you want as soon as we got home, my sister.
Jo Delgadillo: She wouldn't give me a number. She won't even tell me she's just like, no way. And I'm like what you just put me on a whole guilt trip.
Jo Delgadillo: When I was at the mall. When I couldn't even hear you. And I kept telling her on a call you back or let me I'll be home and a little bit because we were we stay there on the weekends and she just kept going on. I can't believe you would leave and I needed my nails filled to
Jo Delgadillo: All wanted to get out with no kids, no nobody. I just wanted to get out and
Think
Jo Delgadillo: She makes me feel guilty for like wanting to go out
Jo Delgadillo: If I leave the babies were you at when he came back. And it's not just her it's
Jo Delgadillo: When are you coming kids are going to print they're crying will handle it date. Where's the wipes really look for them. Like they'll literally be right next to him and he will call me asking for wipes and
Jo Delgadillo: It's like no one can function.
Jo Delgadillo: Especially with the dog.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you think makes you attract these type of personalities that are dependent on
Jo Delgadillo: Because I do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: enable it.
Jo Delgadillo: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's like the question earlier, if this is her first baby. And if you didn't get involved, who would step up the message you played over and over your head is that I have to do it or no one else
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's that all or nothing thinking and that's sometimes where that that power complex comes into
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because remember we talked about the drama triangle and you share that you're the rescuer it tends to accommodate and try to save a lot of people. And so in that rescue a role. It also has
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The characteristics of power.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And someone that has power. They tend to attract people that want to be well
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There'll be a conflict that there's another leader or another person seeking power that's why sometimes is that conflicts.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are there any people that you attract or in your community in your system that are also leaders that are also rescuers.
Jo Delgadillo: Like
Jo Delgadillo: Around me no
Jo Delgadillo: No, no.
Jo Delgadillo: Not at all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know why.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because, you know,
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah. And a lot of people that that are kinda like that they people feel like I'm intimidating.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I'm just so used to speak up for everybody in my house and everyone does, though. Like, look at me. And I'm starting up sometimes. So it's pressure
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah I contribute to your anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what you're trying to work on your anxiety, but the behaviors are working in opposite, we're not working together to help you reduce your and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What could you do different to allow for victims to transition to a rescue row.
Jo Delgadillo: Help them to show to do things for yourself.
Jo Delgadillo: Or at least help them a few times, help them to do things for themselves.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But what happens when you help
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So pride that you try that in the past, you've left your husband alone and you know you thought this well. But what is he dead because you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know, and he says something stupid like you said like, where's the white and you probably tell them, it works right here. And this is that, and then cause again a call second
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what it does is it conditions him to not have to think on his own. I'll just call Joe should probably get irritated and she probably just come home sooner.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because she'll
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just deal with it.
Jo Delgadillo: Ever done
Jo Delgadillo: With everyone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then the minute you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Stepped in for the baby shower.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And everyone else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They just fell in line. They went back to the victim role because Joe. The Rescuers here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's why I said, what would it because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have a strong belief that if you had use this opportunity to create that strong boundaries and you decided that you weren't going to do the baby shower someone else would have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even if no one else did well be the worst case scenario if no one can debate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Over
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Just something that just wouldn't happen.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't really know anyone so I didn't really invite anyone. Everybody knows in Texas.
Jo Delgadillo: And her mom supposedly is coming and her ex boyfriend this cup to her ex boyfriends are coming
Jo Delgadillo: And my first son is like so unlike know and she's like, Oh, don't worry about it.
Jo Delgadillo: They're just my best friend. And I'm like, wait a minute. When you were hanging out with Jacob and you had a boyfriend. That's what you were telling your boyfriend in front of my son, and we all heard it. Now my center boyfriend. That doesn't make me feel any more comfortable like
Jo Delgadillo: My son, used to be the best friend and now you're with him.
Jo Delgadillo: Like, yes, I feel bad for him on that part. I haven't said nothing.
Jo Delgadillo: He's if I go to him with what she's telling me, I'll be a bad guy and I don't want to be. I want to be there and be like, I want to catch him when
Jo Delgadillo: She screws up so my grandma's paint playing bad guy like putting your foot down, stop spending money stop my news and just like come to me and he's been calling me telling me everything but he doesn't know that
Jo Delgadillo: Doesn't go tell him anything we keep it between us do
Jo Delgadillo: Yes need somebody to go to one of us. So, and I was like I mom, I WANT TO BE GOOD guy You're a bad guy. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in that in that situation. I heard that it's hard to let go the rescue around you like appearing like a good person.
Hmm.
Jo Delgadillo: Cuz I used to be horrible.
Jo Delgadillo: I used to be like when I was on drugs. I hated who I was and I didn't know who that person was because I was that person at the time.
Jo Delgadillo: When I started to get clean and I was looking at the people I was around. I was like, holy crap. That was me, like, was I doing that. I do that. And I'm like, yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: They were my partner crying like yeah we're idiots treating people horrible.
Jo Delgadillo: will not regret it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is it possible that that guilt contributes to your needs to be a rescuer yeah
Probably
Jo Delgadillo: Because I used to think my shipping state and oh my god I was
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah so stuck up and hateful and
Jo Delgadillo: Such and I look back, and I'm like, How did I didn't know and kill me.
Jo Delgadillo: I was pretty hateful
Jo Delgadillo: And if I if I didn't like someone i'm not i probably sleep with their dad or brother or their husband. Like, that's how horrible. I was
Jo Delgadillo: Sucks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because not that person anymore.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm not and still people still treat me like I'm still that person, and I think it's my fault because I don't give nobody a chance to find out like I'm not that person because it's scary letting people come around us are letting them in our little bubble
Jo Delgadillo: Scary cuz every time I love someone and they do something stupid.
Jo Delgadillo: Like the guy that I'm the one that I said that he says he's transgender
Jo Delgadillo: I found out he wrote, he raped Roman which is his second cousin and reminisce a little boy that's my stepdaughters best friend.
Jo Delgadillo: Used to come over here. That's the one that used to tell me all the time that he was gay.
Jo Delgadillo: He he.
Jo Delgadillo: He raped him and supposedly cops got involved and they generate kit and they found his DNA when I'm like why isn't he in jail. None of it.
Jo Delgadillo: And then I feel like horrible in myself because I was around him and took him to get his nails done with us and we went to the mall. Like, we wouldn't eat.
Jo Delgadillo: Now, I'm like, why didn't anyone tell me I would never do that to Roman Roman and I feel like I retreat before it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was called in already
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, supposedly, I didn't like I heard about the story. When I met Devon Roman all them isn't someone had did something to him, and it's screwed him up a little and that's why he was doing
Jo Delgadillo: Therapy at school like talking to a therapist like once a week at school. I knew about that, but it never went any further like into detail.
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't push it if she was comfortable enough to tell me what she told me, and then that's cool with that, man. Now I'm just like, holy crap that's what he was telling me about, and it was him. I had no clue.
Jo Delgadillo: And then I and it was weird because I was talking crap about pedophiles, when we were at the mall eating after we did our nails and he got this like
Jo Delgadillo: A SHAME THAT shamefaced I can't explain it, but his face. I was like, what was that face like I felt like it thinking about what was that
Jo Delgadillo: What was that face and then three days later, or say this is like, did you hear what why I won't isn't like Danny in our house in her house around Roman
Jo Delgadillo: And I was like, no one in there. I was like, is that she goes, What and I will say, I heard a story about room and something happened to him.
Jo Delgadillo: A few years ago, which was a few years ago when I met him. She's like, Yeah. And I was like, I'm was a Danish. She was like, yeah, and I was like I was like oh like
Jo Delgadillo: Why didn't you told me before I would have never been around him. I DIDN'T KNOW SHE'S LIKE, SO YOU HEARD ABOUT heard about it and I was like, not tells but I heard about a situation
Jo Delgadillo: She was just like, yeah, it was pretty bad. And he raped him in front of his other brother, Josh.
Jo Delgadillo: And there's there there's 12 and 14 now.
Jo Delgadillo: And that just it hurts me to my core because
Jo Delgadillo: They're my friends kids like I've seen a part of their life. That makes me feel bad for them.
Jo Delgadillo: Sucks. And now that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're going to reiterate a role, just because I think you're aware of it, but I want to make sure that you want as a therapist, whatever you say is kept confidential. But I have a requirement to report.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If I feel that is the danger to yourself, or if there's any type of abuse, abandonment or neglect in regards to a child. So that's why I asked for this call did
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It wasn't then I would need to get the necessary information to call it in. Well, I would have to inform you, so that you could call it in to ensure that it goes to the proper measures investigation and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just for future conversations when you think of because now is that requirement that I would have to call it in because I'm in another state and makes it a little more complicated about. No, I wouldn't have any information on individuals.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you have this conversation. You say the person said he was awake picked on, and the nation. Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: If that they took. They took him to the hospital did a rape kit and then the cop Scott a statement from Josh because he was there in the room, or the one that happened. Yeah, and they should probably detail about so i don't i don't understand why he's in jail.
Jo Delgadillo: If all that went down. Why is he like and why was I've seen him in the same like he was he's been outside. He's been a living room around him like, but I've never seen them interact with explained it.
Jo Delgadillo: To the store one day, everyone piled in but Roman and I was like why don't want to go, everybody's like, he was like, can you just give me an icy knows I sure didn't think twice about it now. It all makes sense.
Jo Delgadillo: Why would his mom even let him go around and he needs to be in jail.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And as a mom of young children put putting parameters in place that he doesn't have access to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Files.
Jo Delgadillo: I mean, it was around eight it. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Kind of files, they will repeat the offenses when given an opportunity is something that's embedded in them and they will continue to repeat until they are
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Incarcerated and they don't have access to it so you can any inkling your body, you don't have all you have to do is call it in your information is kept confidential and he just give them investigators the information we need so that they could move forward.
Jo Delgadillo: I will. I gotta wait a little bit so Mercedes. I don't think it was me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah yeah yeah you know the number to report in New Mexico. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I got I got the number one, I called for the neighbor. They gave me for the children and the adults.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So with with all that squared away, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is there anything that I need to do to assist you or to help you have more ease with this situation with with the guy and Roman and add
Jo Delgadillo: He's messaging me he wants. He's having a baby shower.
Jo Delgadillo: It's just uncomfortable because I want Roman there. I don't have, I have to tell them no on there. They're the type of people that if when you
Jo Delgadillo: Give me an example. Deb is the cousin and they used to have a neighbor name and I
Jo Delgadillo: Got it all because and I he said that she didn't want Danny over there. Danny didn't even live there. She went over there and beat her up.
Jo Delgadillo: Out of her own house and beer. I didn't go to jail. Nothing. No. Call the cops cops came because the neighbors, but no one spoke up. No one said nothing. That's just the way that family works.
Jo Delgadillo: That's why I'm like, I have to wait until because if they know either do something to my kids, me and they know where my grandma lives. So that's why I had to wait till blows over. But yeah, it's just it's nerve racking because just the way they think is it's twisted. Yeah, it's not normal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And I know they all do drugs. He told me he's been doing cocaine and crystal meth. That's what he told me
Jo Delgadillo: He said he said another word that I've never even heard that's why I didn't understand. And it kind of like went in one ear and out the other. And then he said it again asking me, I guess he wanted me to know if I wanted
Jo Delgadillo: To talk to him. He's been messaging me and he even had his mom messaged me and then she wrote me on Facebook on a comment, she commented on Facebook and I wouldn't
Jo Delgadillo: I wouldn't even check it, because you can see how it pops up before and I could just see the beginning. She was like, then needs his nails filled and I was just like, meet you, but I'm just, I don't, I can't
Jo Delgadillo: I don't, I don't know if I don't want to confront him because and that's just bringing it up.
Like
Jo Delgadillo: I have to say something. I was gonna say some other do something. Anyways, I was just waiting to Mercedes PR guy and maybe he forgot he wasn't around anymore and you didn't want to be around me. And yeah, I was gonna
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I think it's a bit is definitely wise to call it in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just to make sure that he doesn't have access to any of the children. He should be registered as a sex offender if there was any conviction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If the investigation happened and it was closed and it was closed and you wouldn't need to register as a sex offender. But if, in the event that there was no evidence, but he's still around children and you have an instinct or someone tells you that he's still doing these things then
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, call it in definitely to protect the children.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if you want to provide me all the information I could call it in myself.
Jo Delgadillo: See, I don't even know where they're at. Yeah. All I seen was at the funeral. I was when I seen that we picked me up from an apartment.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't even think they live there because they're all of them. The whole family never, never have seven kids and they're homeless.
Jo Delgadillo: They've got six of them were them and then the rest of the family. There are homeless. They like jumping everywhere. And ever since I've known him for almost three years, maybe four, yeah. Almost four when Jay Jay turn toward and they've all been like that. That's how they've always lived
Jo Delgadillo: In
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: India therapy about this environment because
Jo Delgadillo: One time I promise I don't I do not put myself in those situations. I know better, cuz I know me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mm hmm. Yeah. Because now you're in this situation in which
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Requires the need to be the rescuer
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: An issue so unfortunate that there's people like business world. And so there's those opportunities when yes definitely necessary to become that rescue
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I'm just hearing these common themes. The elderly woman across the street and what she was going through and now
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Danny and just these these people and these different with the lifestyles and behaviors that gets you immersed in it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even if you don't want to be a part of it, the rescuer in you, whether a Sharma be taken that has to rise up because now we're talking about one of the people that needs to be protected, but um
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's also concerning that these people are so attracted to wanting to to hang out with you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So there's different barriers of protection that you will need to put in place so that these people can see that you know what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can be friendly to we won't mesh well she won't understand us and that might be hard for you to set because I know you want to appear. Good. You want to be like you want to restore all the past representation that you had. But now you're a different person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And taken on that mindset that you're different. It's uncomfortable, it's challenging, but you need to move from the past and what people think you're wanting to redeem yourself and being this good likable person to just Jill the sober stable person is trying to do better for myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, that's what I tell people I'm a work in progress.
Jo Delgadillo: Shirt as a work in progress.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Definitely, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I remember you mentioning group that you feel anxious throughout certain times of the day. I can't really recall verbatim what you said.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A lot. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Like when I take her to school when I when I'm going to pick her up when James taking a nap like
Jo Delgadillo: Author of the day when she doesn't take a nap. It's when my husband's driving to work. And then when he's driving home.
Jo Delgadillo: Like, even though we got a new car. I still worry because he's got a car and there's these little like stuff that goes through here like I don't think normal people think that that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Literally, what are you doing when those thoughts come
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are you doing when those thoughts come to
Jo Delgadillo: Me like going to sleep marketing driving
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, it's scary.
Jo Delgadillo: And then forgetting. I forget everything and it scares me a lot that I forget. So easy. Like I feel like an old person, sometimes with no memory. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Like I don't like it. And when I was younger, a teenager was about 19 they did a test and they said it's because of all the scar tissue in my brain.
Jo Delgadillo: My head that I'm a goner.
Jo Delgadillo: That's scary.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you have a head injury and
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, and I had a crack at my school is cracked all the way they say like a y and then it goes down, all the way to the back and then when I got older, my mom beat me and with the bruises on my grandparents found out. So she started to beat me in the head because it didn't leave marks.
Jo Delgadillo: So turn my eyes to blood and yeah
Jo Delgadillo: I would get black eyes. Yeah. And then I guess you know it started with headaches like
Jo Delgadillo: Just a slight headache, but never went away and then they went away all of a sudden for like a week or two, and then they came back in the room migraines.
Jo Delgadillo: Or I would pass out my nose with lead like and I would hear like the TV like coming in and out.
Jo Delgadillo: scary thought I had a brain tumor. And I just kept doing all these tests. And then finally, and they sent me to another doctor and he was like, it has to be
Jo Delgadillo: The scar tissue because it's like her brain. Right. It has to be swelling something he doesn't know. So they did test like every three months they did it like clockwork. I had to go in
A long
Jo Delgadillo: Long time ago in and then all of a sudden the migraines just went away.
Jo Delgadillo: like or don't like you would never happen. And then I would get a headache here and there but I already know what to do. What I would get them. Yeah, it was. It was scary because I thought I was gonna die.
Jo Delgadillo: Like, be careful, like, Oh, I can hit my head and it. I feel like I'm gonna pass out.
Jo Delgadillo: Like I could barely hit it scary.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Traumatic brain injury.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't know. I don't even remember all that. All I know is they said, just be careful not my they told my grandma all the important stuff. Is it the way I was forgetting was scaring me.
Jo Delgadillo: And then migraine on top of it.
Jo Delgadillo: I was losing my mind.
Jo Delgadillo: And everybody thought I was lying.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, what, what things are you putting in place to help with during
Jo Delgadillo: Staying away from everybody.
Jo Delgadillo: I know it all week. I've been stayed away for the past two, three weeks seven staying away from
Jo Delgadillo: Hold on.
Jo Delgadillo: Let me run in and get my keys.
Jo Delgadillo: Music when I drive
Jo Delgadillo: Here we are.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Talking about what you've been putting in place to help managing anxiety and you said sand away from the stressful people. And I think that's good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we thought about this in steps. I think we're ready for the next step, because that step one was identifying the external systems. So you identified some people
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're hearing information about new individuals. And so you're trying to figure out how do I separate myself now is when we go to the next step. Step two. We looked on the outside. Now do the work with it. What is it that I'm doing that contributes to my inside
Jo Delgadillo: overthinking
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah yeah I'm constantly in my head. That's why I can always keep myself busy. So I don't think too much because I go to a bad place and
Jo Delgadillo: I have to constantly say stay busy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can say with anxiety is you want to be aware, aware of it. And there's an acronym that actually helps so that you can identify more steps to help with that and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So aware that a is starting with acknowledging that the anxieties there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when you acknowledge that the anxiety is there. What do you do, so we're just going to stay there on that step right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you acknowledge that there have been awareness. So that's catching it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that then you can stop the fat. We talked about in the group. And I'm not sure if everyone gets it sometimes, but the thought stopping
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is very important in catching behaviors so that she can rewire the brain rewire your body's response. And then, in turn, remove or eliminate the symptom. So the symptom right now is things if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We want to catch the five, you have to be aware of it, you're good that you able to tell me specific places and driving my kids to school, my husband's in the car. These are people that you love the anxiety is centered around the people that you love.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is also the element of that control and that power that comes into because the people you love is also your territory.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where he say a very protective bubble
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when I say, you know,
Jo Delgadillo: Very controlling some that are doing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Jo Delgadillo: Also
Jo Delgadillo: One more. I feel like I am more anxiety again. So I tried to like I have to like for their sake, especially at my nose a teenager myself teenager I don't let them do anything. He didn't go nowhere to be around, nobody
Jo Delgadillo: And now I'm finding out how sneaky us he's telling me now that he's older and I'm like, Really, I screwed up like
Jo Delgadillo: I'm going to
Jo Delgadillo: His business but I'm gonna let them.
Jo Delgadillo: Have a little bit of freedom. I asked your he's going to be speaking
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So finding that balance because, as a parent, you need to have some protective capacity that protective capacity warrants needing some level of control and power.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You need that. But right now we see there's an inbound so we're still on the A and aware be awareness. So when you see it, you recognize that the anxiety is coming in is because by now, when you take care of the body.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you're noticing you're anxious. Pretty sure you're breathing is probably different. We think about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I see your chest movie. Now is there even
Jo Delgadillo: There.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I can see you, uh, you know, exhaling. What we want to do is focus more on the 711 reading. So you're going to inhale seven seconds, it's going to be longer. Exhale.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we'll practice it. Right. So inhale 1234567 Excel 123678
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Inhale 1234567 excellent 1234568
Is back with
Jo Delgadillo: Jordan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, well, we were talking before we did the breathing. I could see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I could see it. And when you were excelling. It was short breaths, but with the 711 breathing technique, you're exhaling longer that's telling your body to go into a calm states when we're anxious, we tend to inhale more Excel less
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when you want to relax your it's hailing more
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we're going to try it again, but this time I want you to put one hand on your chest and one hand on your stomach.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when you breathe in, for the seven building your chest. But when you exhale push it all the way out and fill your beliefs. Okay, one more time, inhale 1234567 Excel 12345678
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In him 1234567
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Exhale 2345678 months and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Accelerate even slower because you literally want to feel your belly expanding like you're blowing air into that building.
Okay.
1-234-567-1234 567
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: overthinking the breathing. Yeah, even though we're thinking the brain.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is fine. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, what ready
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Inhale smoke to the seven exhale slower. So inhale 1-234-561-2341 234567
Excellent.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, there you go. How does your body feel
Jo Delgadillo: Joy.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, yeah. Even in here. I was like, yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we're right we're taking care for brain because now the brain is acknowledging. There's a variety that's visited
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now you're preparing your body to release it, because when you have anxiety. You want to discharge it won't let it go.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That'll be additional steps we work on before right now want you to focus on acknowledging that anxiety when it comes it say, all right, this feels like enzyme
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The awareness and then the breathing to get your body in mind that you're not in distress, you're on a calm state and the more you do it, when those he stops visit the more your body will respond to the situation in a calm state.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you never taught your body before that your kids want to school is an okay thing to be afraid.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, but when you if you drop them off and your brain always goes into that anxious mode that what if this. What if this and panic mode.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your body will continue to to be tense.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So even when you drive a to get that back into your body. You may notice you probably driving tense, we may feel it in your lower back. You may feel it in your stomach or your chest.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I feel it up here. Yeah.
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: So temps.
Jo Delgadillo: Are you driving like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It helps because it starts to get it hurts minutes drops and I know it's because of stress and I tend to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, we need to work on the catching the thought. And now once we
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will see we're sending that signal to the brain. There is an intruder here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now you're preparing your body
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To discharge that anxiety to tell the anxiety that it can't visit you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's going to come
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But until you retrain your brain and your body
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's going to continue to come and it's going to intensify if you don't train it because probably in the past. It wasn't as bad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But probably getting more and more intense.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, the more now the jailers in school and he works farther and we're here and edge would like and now this coronavirus
Jo Delgadillo: Like everyone's going crazy everywhere.
Jo Delgadillo: It's no and now three people here in New Mexico have confirmed have it and like, yeah, it's getting bad they're talking about closing everything down. Like all any school activity Monster Jam was this weekend, and a whole bunch of other things. It's all cancel everything. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it's it's like the epidemic. It's a crisis. And so a lot of things. It makes sense to have to shut down. This is going to be so bad for tourism travel and cities, making money.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Back. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: People are freaking out there, staring each other. Yeah, yeah, it's just, it's like a domino effect.
Jo Delgadillo: Like there's no sanitizer. You're only allowed to buy one at a time. If you do I sanitizer.
Jo Delgadillo: Like their signs everywhere saying, when you buy sanitizer or any kind of cleaning products even additional you're only allowed to buy one at a time or per person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm not sure because we brought a lot of us stuff like when it was in in another country site come in and be prepared. So I don't know if they put those restrictions on now because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's bad to worse. You got us up like maybe a week or week and a half ago, could you like it's picking up. We have people here now that habit multiple people everywhere.
Jo Delgadillo: But I'm trying not to go there because that's one less thing. I don't
Jo Delgadillo: Freak out myself out what's, what's it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any more encouraging whenever I look at it, it's always older people that are have health issues. So their body is more compromised and their immune system is suppressed. So, you know, they're more susceptible to get it.
Jo Delgadillo: With her
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So she needs to just make they, you know, away from public
Jo Delgadillo: And I remember let her go nowhere.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, yeah. I'm like, Nope. She can't go. I'll go and everybody's like, why she wants to get out. I'm like, I don't care.
Jo Delgadillo: I'll go to the support
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I want to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Play something for you because I want you to really
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: get accustomed to this this breathing mode and see it because I want to want to work with you more individually one because I think you respond well to the information and having this therapy and having these resources will help in every aspect of your life.
Jo Delgadillo: And they are like I'm taking in. And I'm telling anybody ever just like you're changing only. Thank you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When it comes to the check and I see some
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People without the April, they get so anxious when the medication check in the more therapy, you have the anxiety isn't even there as much because you're like, you know what I really don't need medication at a high bills to function I have more skills under my belt to help me.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, and I think I'm good at it with the whinging like tapering off.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, scared me to death. And I was like, kind of mad, like, Oh, she just wants me off. She's in here and now i'm glad like really
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you at now.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm at seven. But I think the less than that.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm not sure because I suck at the whole measuring thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Jo Delgadillo: It says on there, seven, eight, sir. I don't even know how to say it, but
Jo Delgadillo: I think I'm taking less than seven because I just I tear a piece off of it. And I think it's more than seven. I had to break it in half, it would be for another piece and it would be at least six, I think, yeah, I think I might be on six but she said seven so I'm like,
Jo Delgadillo: If I can get down to four. I remember her telling those other people that there's another thing that she can put them on and
Jo Delgadillo: I'm
Jo Delgadillo: Like in my mind. I want to be off for the summer when I'm not going to push myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I do this.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Place you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Could you could get some more excuse me about to help out with all domains with your life with the anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then be able to say I'm on a very low dose of the Suboxone I don't need medication to function in life. I have the skill to have the tools.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To function in life and you teach your kids this these resources and helping them manage their anxiety. It's as a parent, one of the most rewarding things where you not only can protect them, but you can help them and how to deal with everyday life stressors.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Share this with you because maybe seeing someone else. Still, it will help the group.
That will do a demonstration of dive chromatic breathing.
But I'd first like you to do is put one hand on your chest and one hand on your stomach and we're gonna take three deep breaths just normal deep breaths.
Good. Did you feel that top hand really moving as you breathe.
And when we're stressed that tends to be the type of breathing that we engage us is that chest breathing, where the the shoulders rise and fall. And there's some tension there.
So when we do diaphragm matic breathing. We're going to push that breath down lower into the stomach and instead of that chest moving. It's going to remain nice and steady.
While your lower hand rises and falls with your inhale and exhale. So as we take a breath in and out. You're going to breathe in through your nose.
And then out through your mouth slowing that breathing down and letting that air fill your belly as it goes down through the chest and expanding the belly.
And then as you exhale completely your belly is going to let go of all that air and completely exhale out. And your breath in, will be about four seconds and your exhale will be a little bit longer at six seconds.
So we're going to practice and I'd like will do about three breaths with me guiding you and I'll say, inhale.
234 exhale 23456 that exhale is a little bit longer than the inhale, so that we're getting all of that byproduct of our breathing out the inhale will be nice and steady and a nice steady exhale
So you can close your eyes and get comfortable.
And when you're ready, we'll take that first inhale breathing in through your nose.
Inhale 234 exhale through the mouth 23456 and inhale 234 exhale 2345 sex. Inhale 234 exhale 23456 and I just like you to fall into a steady pattern of breathing continuing to breathe deeply
Filling the belly.
Exhaling out completely.
You may envision that there's a balloon that fills as you breathe in.
And then as you exhale out all of the air from the balloon is release breathing in through your nose and out through your mouth. Maybe beginning to feel your shoulders relax.
Your jaw relaxes to
Have in your stomach begins to feel more comfortable.
Nice heavy limb some warm relaxation circulating throughout the body.
Just continue to breathe in a rhythm that's comfortable
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Could you imagine being able to do that, the next time that anxiety, visit
Jo Delgadillo: I could
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You could relax your body immediately.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I feel, relax.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relax. Yeah, yeah. So that's the first step will be working on additional steps, but I want you to practice that during the week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I'm sure the the anxiety visits throughout the day. And so you want to identify when that anxiety is coming. Write it down. You already identified some things, but there's some other things that you're not aware of that's coming. And you practice those that really
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if there's people around, and you feel uncomfortable with your chest in the practice it at home so that even if you're in a public place you can be able to do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does that work for you.
Jo Delgadillo: What we
Jo Delgadillo: Just got a message from my grandma. Yeah, that's fine. Okay, what time
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm sorry. You came a little earlier. So do you want to do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Five o'clock or seven o'clock.
Jo Delgadillo: At a certain rate dinner. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So see march 25 at five o'clock.
Already
Jo Delgadillo: All right, take care. Bye bye.